so a couple of things guys today is a
very exciting
day because we're launching our uh
coaching platform to the public to the
pubs
the plebs the noobs so
just a quick explanation about what
coaches are and what they aren't so
they're
you know they're people from they're you
guys
who've said hey i want to help other
gamers and or
i guess we've even expanded beyond
gamers now but
you know i want to help noobs let's call
let's call it that
and uh they um
so i train them for a few months and
then we kind of like go through
you know understanding other people how
to talk how to listen and what they
really try to help you do is help you
understand yourself better
and once you understand yourself you can
like do more of the things that you want
to do so it's my belief that
part of the reason that we're stuck is
because you guys know what you need to
do but you get you can't figure out how
to do it
like you know what you should be doing
but like you can't do the things that
you should do so why is that
and so our coaching program is really
developed to like help people understand
themselves because like once you
understand
you know once you understand the
controls then
it becomes so much easier to play the
game okay but let's
let's get into the league league exparts
yo how's everybody doing today
good how about you okay good so you guys
are a bunch of like league experts
something like that that's awesome right
um can we and we're talking a little bit
today about like
league positivity and toxicity
is that right yep do you guys want to
talk about something else
it's your show or your uh your stream
yeah but i i never figure out what we
talk about it's usually the guests who
determine
i know it's kind of weird right it's the
first thing i'll ask people is like
what do you want to talk about today i
see so you gave us a topic but then we
don't actually have to talk about the
topic
not if y'all don't want to i mean i
think that's why we assembled this
particular group of people but
ultimately if you guys so y'all are the
experts right
so you guys know what our community
needs and what you guys need and if you
all want to talk about something else
that's
cool
i mean if something comes up and
whatever happens happens yeah absolutely
buddy
i can get behind that can we start with
introductions
should i go first i'll go first i'll be
shy guys uh so i'm all at kenoja
uh also known as dr k i have played
league of legends a handful of times
um i don't even remember which champion
i played but it's
one that can root things and as a
support
and uh it's a fun game maybe i'll play a
little bit more
that was great uh i'll go uh my name is
danny
kenny lee or shifter uh team league you
play pro
um yeah not just stream uncomfortably
now
cool um my name is jodat or boyboy
like danny i used to play pro two we
used to
play against each other with each other
and yeah i just been streaming for a
while now too
mainly league um
my name is uh chris or serches um i just
play
league for fun to stream um never played
professionally
but uh i do get pretty up there in the
elo with just playing
one champion so which channel my name is
oh sorry oh sorry sorry kurt oh you're
good you're good yeah
i play uh singe i don't know you messed
up the nasa sometimes too
yeah we lost today boy boy i don't know
if you i wasn't i know
no i realized no it wasn't your fault i
someone else through man i saw it it was
hecarim but
yeah i don't want to mention names yeah
yeah sorry go ahead dude okay sorry my
name is kareem
sanchez i never played pro but i've been
streaming league for about two years now
and i play top
you know what this sounded like what you
know like uh
when you go to like those sharing
circles when they talk about like
addiction and they get like the
alcoholic yeah yeah yeah
it's like my name is danny lee i'm 27
and i
play league of legends
dr casey you're damn right
you guys see how you fell right into
that trap i was like we could talk about
whatever you want to and it's like a
share circle at the beginning of an aaa
meeting
my name is you said it's it's chris or
search searches yeah so search has is
actually uh my name backwards
so chris e with the z but uh that's how
people call me so i just stuck with it
searches
yeah so search has this like i'm a i'm a
singe
spammer pretty much yeah
the only champion i know to play yeah so
you guys um
so let me just kind of dive right in and
danny that's hilarious man
so you guys mentioned earlier that that
you know search has kind of apologized
for losing a game right
um and then and then boy boy was like no
man it's not your fault
it's that other [ __ ] noobs fault
right so we get to we get to the
beginning of league which is like what's
it like
when you blame a teammate like why does
that happen like what what do y'all
think about that
i think it's pretty natural reaction
for people to look for
other reasons outside of themselves
whether it's true or not
to like you know put a lot of the
responsibility or
a lot of times it turns out the blame
and it happens a lot in league right
like um you know someone might have a
someone might be playing well all game
they might not even make a mistake but
someone might just
something might go wrong and they might
think it's their fault and then they'll
start like typing flaming them
they'll get mad and just like go off on
them and that kind of stuff and i mean
it
there's so many different situations and
and contexts where that kind of happens
but i think it's it's like super meta um
at least an elite community to just kind
of
look for reasons to like tier other
people
especially on your team down um or like
find someone to like you know be a
scapegoat or blame for whatever happens
and
i feel like that's kind of like been
been been around since like you know i
mean it's just like a gaming thing but
it's definitely gotten worse over time
in the league community i think as well
what do you all think about that
um sorry i'm glad no no go ahead okay uh
i think
personally shifting blame is like one of
the easier ways to
like i don't know it's just something
that a lot of people
do um and i notice it a lot and i think
unless you're at the
highest of the highest levels of play
nobody ever plays
perfectly and it is like
from my experience one of the
like the worst things that you can do to
stop yourself from improving um
because i think like instead of looking
at what others did wrong
you should look at what you did wrong in
that certain situation but
it's very hard to do in like the
in the moment because
like something just went wrong the game
is potentially lost you have 20 minutes
of
pain ahead of you playing a game that
probably just got lost
and like despite that you still have to
look at what you did wrong
and so i think that's just like
difficult to do
in that environment especially when
everybody else is
already sort of tilted what makes it
hard to do
um
[Music]
well your ego gets in the way
and that that's something that you have
to really
like be real with yourself about
especially in league you'll find that
it's much easier to blame others for a
play
than to blame yourself you guys think
that's specific to league
no no i think right
real life other games it's the same in
my opinion
yeah so why do we do that so it's like
kind of like there's something actually
really
cool about this is that you guys are
talking about something and i can't tell
that you guys are talking about me
there's ego involved you look for other
reasons besides yourself
for the failures that you face
right which is like this is crazy i
never connected these dots until now but
i wonder if people can transform their
lives by understanding
themselves in league because if you guys
are saying it applies outside a league
like
interesting right so i've known plenty
of people who are happy to blame their
parents their siblings their teachers
anyone but yourself
yeah that's a good point so when curry
like i'm sorry go for it point
i was going to say like it it kind of
seems like a lot of people
i kind of want to see like they lack
like perspective i guess
like when people get stuck in like a
bubble
they they think about this one way or
they tunnel it and they forget to think
about it in different
ways or um
yeah they just like they're just so
tunneled on it and they these same guys
just like wake up and get mad every day
you know they probably kind of fall into
the same routine but they don't really
try to actively switch it up so
i feel like it's hard to change right
you just it's really easy to fall into
you know do the same thing every day
yeah so
how does one so you guys used a couple
of terms which i think it's important to
kind of explore
one is ego and the other is losing
perspective
so what would you guys say like what is
when kareem says ego what do you all
think he means
ego you just don't want to be seen as
like weak or worse than other people
you don't want to be seen as weak or
worse than
other people do you guys
problem i encounter a lot in league is
that
people will automatically like they
really don't like to get blamed
on i guess like um
he's how do i work this um
you give after me on this point let's so
can anybody help danny
out wait wha
would you you said they don't like to
get blamed on
yeah like they they hate being the
victim they hate
feeling like weak or like bad yeah yeah
yeah um yeah i think
it's it i feel like i it's kind of like
[Music]
i guess one just immediate way to put it
is like it's like you have like
two junglers and like they're fighting
over like this finite resource which is
like scuttle crabs
and like usually two spawn one on each
side of the map and like
you know one jungler can like go for one
the other can go for another or like
they can contest the same one
and a lot of times especially since it
was introduced like
you'll have a lot of junglers like like
mental boom because
they want to go for one and then like
whatever the situation is like whether
they don't have
priority in lanes they can't get help
from their team or they have
worse like early game champions on your
team like they'll just over they'll over
force it or if they don't get it or
whatever they'll just be like all right
we lost like the game's over when it's
literally like you know it's worth like
100 gold like a bit of exp like it's not
it doesn't really matter that much
in the grand scheme of like a whole
league of legends game
but i've had people like literally leave
my like the game at like three minutes
in
so many times because they like didn't
get scuttle crap or whatever or they
like they felt like someone like screwed
them over
and it's just kind of like that's like a
microcosm of like what happens
all the time in league which is like
yeah if like if like you feel like
you're
the thing that you cared about the most
or like your personal strength or like
your ability to carry or like be the
hero
or like you know whatever objective that
you had in mind or
you know if that if that gets derailed
because of someone's else or because
because you think it is or you just want
to blame someone else it kind of just
like breeds like kind of like a
negative like outburst and like some
toxic behavior and stuff like that and i
mean i've
seen it a lot over the years and in like
different forms and stuff like that
um but yeah people definitely don't want
to like
you know feel like they can't like
be like the like they want to be like a
single-player game where like they're
it's like their story and stuff like
that
and if anything happens and they can
find a reason that like it wasn't
that that stopped them from doing that
in the way they wanted like they'll just
they'll just like
you know go off on people and i don't
know obviously it's
it's a little different in each
situation but i feel like
i see that quite often
what did you guys hear from voyboy's
story what do you think are the
important
points from his example
i think people just don't like to admit
their mistakes so though like you i
think he was mentioning like how
people like to force things and um
you know it's not um what do you call
it's not favorable for
to like follow up with whatever the
person is trying to do
because you can end up losing more like
um
sometimes you know i'm top lane and my
jungler wants to gank
like tower dive and if i commit to it i
know i'm gonna die also
so is it it's better to just let him die
than have me die
and at that at that point the jungler
gets really mad saying oh how come you
didn't commit with me
uh you suck and then he starts blaming
me for losing the game and then
it's the whole game he just type scenes
like oh you suck this guy
top gap everything and it's just chopped
one
to do oh they say like top gap like
there's a top difference like the other
players better than you
oh got it yeah okay
so i got something kind of bizarre to
say
what if i told you guys so like you guys
are talking about basically like this
principle in league where
something relatively minor goes wrong
right like let's say he dives the top
tower and he dies and you don't
die with him and what he wanted more
than anything else is you to die with
him because now that you haven't died
with him we're going to lose the game
which is a [ __ ] up logic for it's in
its own way
but and then avoid boy was kind of
talking about
scuttle which is like you know you lose
your scuttle and you really wanted that
scuttle like that was supposed to be
your scuttle
and it's not your scuttle now and then
you like kind of throw in the towel
right what if i told you guys that
that's not restricted to leak
what if i were to say that i think half
the problem with the people who
feel stuck in life and join our
community is because they throw in the
towel because something didn't go their
way
yep sounds about right makes sense i
agree
right so like what do we do about that
like this is actually really bizarre
because i think what you guys
y'all are using league terminology but
what i'm hearing you guys talk about is
people that i work with
right they had something so like let's
try to understand
what is it that makes like why do people
do this like how does that
work in their mind where
i wanted to scuttle and i didn't get it
so [ __ ] everyone
and most of all [ __ ] me i'm gonna end in
real life
so that's what we do right we int in
real life too
we self-sabotage i gotta be on a test
[ __ ] it i'm never going to class again
they literally throw they throw they
take their gpa and they toss it out the
window
which is really kind of bizarre but the
really thing that i didn't really think
that we were going to get here
but i think bizarrely you guys may have
an answer to transform
the lives of thousands of people
if you guys can figure out why do people
do this in league
i think people have a certain like idea
and a certain mindset before even
getting into a game of league when they
decide to queue up
for example if you're going to play a
really aggressive champion
you have a way of thinking how the lane
is going to play out or how
the matchup is going to play out and
sometimes it just doesn't go your way
and then depending on your mental
you can either
like improve on it see what happened
wrong avoid it in the future
and then in the moment adapt to the
situation and see how you can play from
behind
or do what i think is the easy way out
and just
self sabotage [ __ ] everything i'm just
gonna end
so kareem said these are your three
options what would you guys
say to that
damn options suck
yeah um rick i mean i think it's just
like
i want to get back to the thing called
perspective like yep
i think maybe it's like
most people get mad like it's all they
know they haven't like experienced much
else
like to them like league is everything
right
but they lose this game like they're
losing everything but like
you know some things aren't how much
value are going to put on losing
league of legends games just one league
of legends game unless you're like you
know pro play where everything is
on the line like how much is this one
loss really worth you know like maybe
you could step outside like live life a
little bit and like there's
there's more things in life than you
know at one legal legislative
so i think yeah so danny
i feel like theoretically that's true
but that's not how people treat it
right so we can say whatever we want to
we can say oh like
depression is bad it shouldn't be there
and but it's true and kind of going back
to kareem's like okay either you learn
from it
you rage like those are the two options
kareem's
right so i think our question so you
guys have done a fantastic job of laying
out okay so people lack perspective
people can learn from it or they can
rage the question is
why why do they do like if i it's like
let me give you guys a choice column is
learn from your mistakes
column b is let your mistakes determine
the rest of your life
and so it's a no-brainer like no no i'm
going to pick column a
i want i want to learn from my mistakes
but it's not actually what people do
people [ __ ] pick column b all the
time
so what on earth do they do that it's
like it's just a scuttle man like why
are you
getting bent out of shape because once
you start hinting then you're actually
gonna lose
so why fulfilling prophecy you're damn
right it is so why do people choose
the clearly crappier option
because it's easier sorry oh yes
i think it's yeah it's easier on us i
think it's they also want to bring other
people down to their level
because like for example with what
shifter said
he said um when uh
you know they they think it's just a
league game so
they're gonna leave how's it gonna
affect them but when they leave it also
affects their teammates
because the other like their teammates
they want to win
it's not just him getting infected so
him leaving
also affects the teammates and he
probably just wants to bring everyone
else down with him
or her yep and you guys said it was
it's easier what's easier about it
i think it's like how they release their
anger right like it's not like someone
like like
a small like a punching bag like they
release anger like
they see something and then like maybe
like just get to like put it out a
little bit i don't know
so let me ask you guys a question how
does it feel to int
it feels good in the moment i can say
from experience
it feels good in the moment you bastard
you you can't help but feel bad about it
i mean i know some people are so far
deep into this downward spiral that
they don't feel bad about it and they've
kind of become known
for doing or this kind of behavior but
yeah it definitely feels good at the
moment but they're
for sure healthier things to do for
yourself for the game in the long run
yes i'm not so interested in those right
because they're they're healthier things
for
everyone in our community to do right
and they don't want to yeah
i know what it feels like to be on the
receiving end of it
how does that feel um
honestly like
i've i myself and like a lot of people
a lot of these guys like we we know how
it feels to like
be into it whether it's like targeted
because we're streaming or because
people like don't like us for a reason
um or like you know people have
people like put like bounties on my head
in solo queue and like
paid off like booster and stuff just to
like just like run it down on my game
and like clip the reaction and then be
like haha look how like sad he is this
kind of stuff
it's like when i'm streaming and stuff
like obviously trying not to show
like how how like annoyed or like
upsetting it is but like really like
when i when i like have like a stream
like like into like three
three games or something like that and
then and i like barely get to play it's
just
it really sucks man like it actually is
like really
over time like over years and like stuff
like that it is pretty depressing
um just like not really get to do the
thing you love and then
like like at the way you want to and
just have like your experience ruined
and like it's just a game right like
to a lot of people it's just like oh
like these like you know streamers
they're just like playing games like why
are they like stressed out but like
to me like league is like you know it's
been my life for like you know 10 years
and then just to like have it happen and
just like you know have riot do nothing
about it
so for so long and then just have people
like kind of normalize that kind of
stuff and
you know belittle like when it happens
or like justify it or whatever like
that kind of i don't know it's it
definitely sucks
um yeah it definitely sucks a lot um
so i don't know i i've tried always
just like obviously losing a game by
itself
feels really shitty for anyone right but
then just to like you know
put yourself out there and like try your
best in a game
and just have like someone whether
because a play went wrong or they're
like you know just trying to like you
know get back at someone or
whatever their their reasoning it
doesn't really matter just to like
single-handedly decide like all right
like your experience is ruined and
you're not you're not gonna get to like
play the game that you like and we're
gonna just like make this
make this one game or this moment or
maybe multiple games like feel really
shitty
uh for you and then you have to like you
know be on stream and like
you know just do your best to be like
well guys sorry this guy's like running
it down
um you know hopefully next game will be
better uh
how's everyone's day going like it's
just like what what do you what do you
do at that point like
there's not there's not that many
options um but yes
it's definitely not a good feeling i
guess search as i saw you nodding
i relate to like i i'm known for just
always being positive and
never getting mad at anything but yeah i
mean couple times
people do in and um same same attitude i
have to pretend that
it doesn't affect me and i just try to
you know tell my community like hey guys
well that sucks it's just you know it
happens gotta move on next game
how does it feel though i mean it pretty
much it kills the mood it kills the mood
and you kind of just don't want to play
anymore
but i i do enjoy the game it's just
getting losses like that like i don't
mind losing
yeah losing sucks but you know losing
because of a player that's purposely
trying to lose the game for you
makes the the loss much worse and you
just kind of kills the boot to play
another game
what makes it so much worse
i don't think that it just makes you
feel um
i can't really describe the feeling but
it's just you're hostage
yeah like you're being held hostage for
20 30 minutes
can you say more about that uh danny or
kareem
um yeah because uh i mean usually
most of like the bad stuff happens all
the negatives that will happen in the
first maybe five minutes or so
um but a game will always drag on to
like minimum
15 minutes is when you can early as you
can send her now but
easily games will just go like 20
minutes and you're just trapped there
for like 15 20 minutes dealing with it
because you can't just leave
it's not like a game like like fortnight
whatever like whatever
if you don't like your teammate you just
takes out there's no repercussions
really
like in the league you're stuck with
them and it's a team game you know you
need to work with your teammates to
progress and if they don't want to work
together with you then
you know a [ __ ] so that's what i'm
looking for right
like so danny says so all you guys are
saying something at the
tail end you'll talk about something and
at the end there's some
emotionally the [ __ ]
what is that right because that's the
closest
to the authentic what you feel like
what is that
at the nuts feels like kicking the nuts
right so this is something that men do
when i ask you guys about feelings
you describe physical sensation
that's the way that we represent
emotions because you can't come up with
a word
they're words to describe how we feel
we call those words emotions
sag right so this is actually really
fascinating because
as a community we've come up for our own
vocabulary because we don't know how to
use the vocabulary of normal humans
right that's what we feel like what is
sad it's kind of like sad
but it's like i just learned about sag
right it's kind of it's like really
awesome it's like cool to see us
develop our own like
language to describe our internal
sensations and everyone understands what
pepe hands means
we all know that feeling
right like so what is the feeling
what how do you guys feel when someone
shows up on your stream
first of all how does it feel to have
someone putting a bounty
on your head like [ __ ]
there it is so boy boy keeps on saying
like [ __ ] what does that mean
um like like me
and all of us i guess like we're like
pretty positive streamers
um like it's like when someone comes up
to you like in real life like
they like speak like in the face like
what's your natural response like maybe
freaking you want to fight them right
like push them away but like
for us like we genuinely try to uphold
like
you know some sort of like positive
environment community
so it's like it's very draining for us
to like
hold it and hold it in because you don't
want to step down to their low
their level we want you to be better
than that
yeah so i'm hearing a lot of stuff so oh
boy boy i'm going to ask you and i i
don't mean to pick on you by the way so
i think that
the reason that you say like [ __ ] is
because i think there's a lot of stuff
encompassed under that umbrella
so danny talks about it being draining
like you know that feeling right where
like you you have all these like
feelings that come up
and you're like if i was a noob
i could just let loose
but i'm not and so there are parts of
myself i think part of the reason that
we don't know
how to describe our feelings is because
we actually take those things and we
shove them off into a closet and close
the door because you guys are
positive streamers and if you show if
they see
that it works
that's just going to increase it yeah
um no for sure i mean it's something
that i've struggled a lot with over the
years like
i'm i i did like a
like a 10 minute video where i was just
like talking to the camera like
a few months back and i was just like
talking about how horrible
like solo queue is and how riot's not
doing anything and how like you know
like target hinting and like people just
running it down like it was one part of
it but
it was just something that i i just
eventually just like need to get off my
chest and just like
hoping like ryan would do something or
the community would like stop
enabling um this kind of stuff because
like
i don't i don't know man like it's
pretty hard like
i've been i've been playing in like
streaming league for like nine years and
i guess what just feels kind of bad
sometimes is like
i guess like i don't know like i feel
like i've always tried so hard
to like set a good example and like be
like
a good member of like the scene and the
communion stuff and like never like
never like ran down on people never just
like went off for no reason like always
like tried to like
show like you know like the best
qualities you can like in game and like
out of it
for like the players and just hope that
you know other people could could pick
up on that and like and like run with it
too and then just to have like you know
so many like i just i just like i just
like
i just like take a shower and just like
wake up eat some food come on stream and
then just
to like not be able to play the game
like to have like a four hour stream
like have like four games in a row where
people are just like insulting me and
like
running it down and like this kind of
stuff and just knowing like riot's not
going to do anything and like having to
like
people people in chat being like boy
like what's why are you so sad like it's
just a game like
you know just you know don't worry about
these people like they're just it's just
like
yeah but they're like literally
controlling like my like actual life
like when you're playing a game when
you're streaming and stuff
you know that's that's what you're doing
that's like what that's something that's
like who i am basically
so i mean yeah it's definitely something
that's
like weighed down on me for like years
now and
definitely got like it's been really
like the worst
um like this year but yeah i i don't
really know like
what to do about it and like yeah it
does i feel like showing like that it
affects you or like
even like when it's happening being like
you know like not just like laughing it
off like i don't really know what to do
besides just trying to laugh it off even
though sometimes it's like
pretty hard um you know whenever it's
happening and
yeah i don't know like i just i just
feel like
it's it's not really fair i guess and
that's when i say
like it feels like [ __ ] it's just you
know it's just encapsulating
that those kind of things over the years
i suppose um
but yeah can i say something
uh i think i'm a bit of an outlier in
the way that
i handle some situations compared to
some of these guys i mean
i'm not i don't claim to be like this
beacon of positivity
i mean like i know what it's like to be
watched
and to have something happen to you that
you couldn't do yourself because you are
a streamer
and i think that well i just want to say
like the way that you guys
handle those situations takes so much
mental strength it is ridiculous like
you you could never understand
unless you are put yourself into this
situation and like i really
commend that and i have so much respect
for guys like voyboy shifter searches
like for having the mental strength to
not do what others do
and to not like um have this sort of eye
for an eye mentality
and that's something that i'm working on
myself
uh yeah i just want to say like because
that video
i think was the beginning of something
that
was like a lot bigger and
although like it hasn't really gotten to
that point yet where we can
say that there has been some like
obvious
changes in the way that people think i
think it is
for sure like happening
so like i just wanted to say like how
much respect i have for for you guys and
like to keep going and not to give up i
guess
yeah thanks man
no problem
what's it like to hear that from korean
it's nice because uh i mean sometimes it
feels like we're
fighting like a hopeless war is it
like there's a reason why you know
positive
reinforcing streamers kind of died out
over the years we've lost a lot of
favors like that um so it's
definitely nice to know that you know
we're at least showing
impact or we'll see our efforts
why do positive streamers yeah go ahead
such as
it's it's uh it's definitely uh
uplifting and encouraging to keep
doing what we're doing um it's you know
it's hard
to see if we're making a difference or
not but you know
it's really good to hear feedback from
other people
you know just encourage us to keep going
and um
definitely
i know this sounds kind of weird but um
so kareem said something that was very
warm and supportive
did anybody find themselves having sort
of like a negative reaction towards what
he said
no not at all
no it's something that
sorry no go for it
i was just gonna say like um
i guess yeah what kareem said like the
encouragement
like you know showing respect like i i
guess like there are definitely
a lot of people that that do vocalize in
that way and like you know
do kind of encourage what we've what
we've always tried to
been doing but i feel like it's
the almost feels like the vocal majority
in the community kind of drowns it out
sometimes so it's like a little easy to
not hear those things or not see them or
kind of like forget about it
when you're when you're kind of faced
with like
some of the more toxic sides so it
definitely
feels you know good every time you know
someone someone's like hey like
you know keep keep up keep up you know
what what you've been doing and
just trying to set a good example and
that kind of stuff so
i it definitely feels good
can i think for a second yep
great you guys have anything else you
want to say i i mean uh
i feel like i'm sniffing something i'm
just i need to package my thoughts but
if you guys have more to add
i'd love to hear
okay
so karim you say that you're not like
these are the guys
right how does it feel to end
that's a funny question um
in the moment again it does feel good
but you know you're not doing the right
thing and it feels shitty because
like you have people in the chat calling
you out for it
and then you have this inner conflict of
like
but everybody else does it why is it bad
when i do it
and then it's again you have these
voices and it's like
okay but i'm supposed to be held to a
higher standard because i'm a streamer
so it's just there's a there's a lot
it's it's
like you have to balance out a lot of
things when you're streaming league of
legends
and there are a lot of many different
things that can get to you kareem does
it feel
fair to int it does feel fair yes
damn right it does yeah
what do you guys think about that it's a
weird question to ask does it
feel fair what do y'all think about that
i think it feels fair but it isn't sure
yeah why does it feel fair
because like what what i'm hearing from
from these other guys these
positive guys is that it's not fair
it feels hopeless it's so exhausting
right tiring but hinting is like
the opposite of all those things yeah it
feels fair
it's invigorating
right right yeah that's how like how can
people do
like like boy boy streams for four hours
and he's wiped at the end of it
these [ __ ] ain't for 12 hours
straight and they're still going
right it's weird right
how do y'all understand that
it's like a very personal thing where
it's just like you feel like you're
giving back what's being dished out to
you
damn right yeah and what was dish out to
you kareem
um that same thing what i've been
being into yeah so so like in those
moments when you in what are you giving
back to them
well i think the problem is you're not
necessarily giving back to the same
people
when you like when you had a rough game
previously
and you go into the next one with an
inting mindset
it's not fair but it feels fair i know
but what are you giving back
right and who are you giving it back to
i agree you're giving something back
maybe to the wrong person right you're
giving back [ __ ]
yeah giving back a horrible experience
yeah for sure
to who to
yourself and to others no i i toss that
i'm gonna toss out a word
you're giving it back to the universe
yeah because the universe [ __ ] gave
it to you
right right last
last game the universe or riot or call
it whatever you want to
life gave you these shitties
these smurfs on the other team and this
top gap noob
on your team right
this afk jungler and so you're gonna
you're
gonna punch back
does that sound like it makes sense
sounds about right yeah
and so i'm gonna just start talking is
that okay
yep you guys let me know if i'm like on
the right track or the wrong track feel
free to jump in if you guys have
thoughts or questions first of all thank
you guys so much for sharing all this i
think it's actually
really fascinating um because what i'm
actually hearing is not
something i'm not really hearing you
guys talk about league i'm hearing you
guys talk about life
which is bizarre but i'm going to start
with this idea of like not fair
so here you are trying to live a good
life
and then they're all the shitties
in the shitties i don't know why we're
not quite sure
but maybe we'll figure it out by the end
for some reason they do things to you
that are like
hard and painful and danny used to
play as [ __ ] depressing hopeless war
right because that's what it feels like
to try to be like positive
in a game and sometimes that's also what
it feels like to be positive
in your own life is that you're fighting
this like hopeless war
against i'm not quite sure what
but i think it comes back to the scuttle
it comes back to this idea that like you
woke up today and you got into a game
and you had this idea about what was
supposed to happen
and somebody took that away from you
who took it away from you
anyone but yourself it was
not enough lane pressure as you guys put
it
or you know like the other team like
having a sm like
someone took something away from you and
then you get angry
and you feel hurt because you had this
idea of what you wanted but it's not
what they gave you
poor boy boy wakes up every day and he's
like i love league of legends i used to
be pro i like to stream i just want to
play this [ __ ] game
because i love the game and it's cool
like
i'm okay losing i'm okay winning
i just want to play that's all i want to
do if i get crushed i get crushed no big
deal
i just want to play the game but instead
so he has this idea right like he has
this expectation
that's the word you guys haven't used
yet but that's the word i'm gonna toss
out is the root of all this
hey this expectation it's like i'm gonna
queue and i'm gonna get to play league
of legends
not an unreasonable expectation
and then someone someone somewhere out
there puts a bounty on his head
and then he doesn't get to play that
game
and i know it's like like kind of apples
and oranges and i don't mean to
suggest that boyboy's like the guy who
you know rages when he
loses the scuttle in the first five
minutes but there is actually an
interesting parallel because like
it's about an expectation that gets
dashed right and i i think that one is a
more
far more reasonable expectation but at
the end of it i still see an expectation
he just doesn't get to play the game and
it's not fair
now the interesting thing is like when
we look at voyboy we can say yeah dude
actually you're right it's not fair but
the interesting thing
is how does the scuttle player feel when
he loses the sky
it's not fair
and so if it's not fair to me it sure as
hell isn't going to be fair to you
if i'm diving the top tower your ass is
coming with me
if i'm going to throw you're gonna throw
two because i ain't thrown alone
and we get to this like idea of i don't
know exactly how this turns into like
sabotaging but it also is like
taking the world with you
and and now i'm kind of like a little
bit of a loss but i feel like there's
something
really important about
you know making it fair and
and sort of this sense that that cream
is like yeah it feels fair
right like it's like what what i feel
about someone who hints
you know what i really think describes
them as righteous
what do you guys think about that
i think it makes sense
i think you know it's
like i mean in the context of league
like it's a team game
there's like 10 people playing and
there's so many factors that determine
the results
but at the end of the day like if you
want to single-handedly decide the
result for your whole team
you can you could literally just leave
the game or
you know buy mobi's and run it down mid
um so it's like you're taking all the
control away from everyone else and
like it's it's you have all the control
right like you
you basically just decided everybody's
fate um for better or for worse
and so i don't know maybe like
i mean you're the expert but that's i
don't know maybe that's
kind of in parallel with with what
you're saying
maybe maybe not sir chess what do you
think
um i honestly i don't know okay
but i'm gonna stick with what boy boy
said
yeah so so i think there's something
really important here right so like
let's forget about the term
righteousness for a second but i think
there's something about
taking control when control has been
taken away from you
what do you guys think about that
i think somewhere along the way this
game stopped being
um team focused in the way that people
view it and became a lot more individual
focused
uh when people queue up and that kind of
removed the idea that sometimes
uh there are going to be circumstances
where
it's actually not good to contest an
objective or
to make a play um
and that in turn
like leads to those events those
unfavorable
events and then that leads to
the behavior that comes with that
if that makes sense can somebody help me
understand that
yeah no i think it does make sense um
everyone it was kind of like the first
thing we like we're talking about too
like
it's everyone wants to be like
it's like you're playing skyrim or
something like you go into a game and
you're just like
this is what i want to do this i'm going
to win like i just watched like you know
this pro player or like tarzan like
jungle like oh i know exactly like
how to like 1v9 this game and then like
oh this like
this and then they go for something and
like they don't get the help or they
they mess
they mess up or they want to like find
something else like you know it's just
it's just figuring out like the
why did it go wrong why was it not me
and some people some people will be like
oh that was my bad like they'll learn
from it
they'll improve as a player like that's
really good but i think it's kind of
meta
at least it has been in the community to
like yeah
it's all about you like how who can i
blame
if if if it's not going the way i want
if the game's gonna be hard or like
a little bit arduous for my personal pov
maybe like
maybe it's worth just like giving up
like let's just open like running it
down like whatever the way you want to
like
like kind of kind of deal with that
feeling i guess
um and it like everyone has their own
way of dealing with it
like for me if i'm jungling and i want
to go for scuttle
and their lanes collapse and i lose it
or i die like
i'm not going to run the game down
because it happened some people will
some people won't some people will keep
playing their best like
but just from freezing from my
perspective i'll just be like okay that
sucks
but like what can we do from here like
how do we play this game out because i
i really think most solo games are
winnable and that's why i try to like
encourage my teams to like never give up
and like
play it out and focus on like what win
conditions that we can find even if it's
like a small chance right like
i've gone flat for this over the years
but like yeah if if if you start off a
game with like a 50
chance of winning and like your regular
elo and then things are going poorly
and then it turns out you know you're
really behind and maybe it's a 10 chance
a lot of
people would just like want to go next
immediately and
i'm not saying this is correct but this
is like how i've always approached it
like
i want to play for that like 10 chance
of like winning the game usually
um which is like very far gone from like
giving up as soon as you lose like the
first
thing that you're fighting for just like
a scuttle cover whatever which is maybe
the percent chance to lose the game
after that went down by like
like two or three or something like that
who even knows like one percent like
i'm not i don't know exactly but i don't
know it's
how did this kind of sorry how did the
meta
become that way
uh i think oh sorry sorry no okay
i think over time like i think i think
lots of it has to do with riot i think
like
it's just it's just we've been like i
know with like the video on the stairs
like
asking for help and stuff like we've
been doing that for
years years we've been talking like
directly like one-on-one and like your
personal stuff like
toxicity like people like believing gays
and stuff like this has been happening
ages and i think like
we've been waiting for so long and it's
just never really happened
i think something was just like yeah
like in the last little hope
right to like solve this issue it's just
kind of spiraled out of control it was
like
mm-hmm yeah are you angry at that 100
what is this video you said video on the
stairs
oh what does that mean
it was it was yeah it was just it was
like a vlog i did
talking about solo queue and league and
how riot hasn't like done anything and
for years and how the system's just kept
getting worse
um and people were just like abusing it
and like there's no consequences and
stuff so it was based it was basically
asking like
riot to like fix [ __ ] and help us right
um because i do think a lot of the blame
is on riot
you know like their system has been
broken for like so long
and if you like we're talking about
people like why people end like this
kind of stuff but like if you go into a
game you just like start running it down
like
you should get punished for that you
shouldn't be able to like just queue
back up and go into another game and do
the same thing and ruin like you know
nine other people's experience
but like for so many years like that's
just
it's like people people literally have
like ran down like 50 games in a row and
like even their automated
detection systems haven't done anything
in a lot of cases so
it's just it's been like a pretty big
problem for
for a while now so yeah like the stairs
thing was just me sitting down like
doing like a
like a vlog talking about and like
asking right to help because like we've
been saying the same things for so many
years and
um at least that video like a lot of
people like resonated with the message
and like shared it and write like
you know watched it and responded and
stuff like that but i mean it's we're
still far from like
a good system but what they say um you
know
um uh yeah they i mean they they they
say they said like yeah we've been
working on stuff like we hear you guys
like
all this stuff and they've been posting
like more consistent updates about like
how they're approaching like the systems
and toxicity
and like you know fix like improving
their automated system
um all these kind of things but yeah i
mean obviously it takes time
um i don't think anyone expects it to
like but it's been like a problem for
like so many years but
with that said like it does take time
but um
yeah i don't know hopefully hopefully
like you know going into next season
there
there'll be a more robust system i guess
and some of the problems can be
addressed but i
i don't really know like it's kind of
like a wait and see
thing at this point so so pardon my
ignorance but
and does anybody else want to uh bounce
off of what roy boy said i want to give
people a chance but i had a couple of
like general questions about
week
so so like does league have a report
system
yeah but it's the most flawed uh
system ever it is useless what do you
mean by flawed how does it flaw
it's flawed in that punishable behavior
isn't punished
or very rarely is like
there have been so many instances where
there was blatant
things that are against like
the summoner's code or whatever that
have been
reported but not punished and then there
are
like on the complete end where on the
complete other end where there are
things that shouldn't
like be seen as serious
get punished i think
yeah and and is there anything like
you guys know what the concept of the
behavior score and dota
no you guys heard about this okay no so
dota actually has a pretty interesting
thing which they implemented a couple of
years ago i mean some people
complain about the system generally
experience my generally speaking my
experience with it has been pretty
positive
so you have this thing called a behavior
score that goes from zero to ten
thousand
and generally speaking i don't know
exactly how it's like on the back end
you don't really know
i don't know how your behavior score
changes but if you have a high behavior
score you get paired with
other people with a high behavior score
and what i tend to find is since they
implemented behavior scores
generally speaking in my games i've been
very surprised by like when i [ __ ] up
people will be like hey man that's okay
don't worry about it
and and i also hear that there's an
absolute cesspool
of like low behavior score people
so like for example if you disconnect
from a game you get put into something
called
low priority queue which means they take
all the re
all the degenerates and they stick them
in games and
literally what could happen is you can
get stuck in low priority queue
because everyone is ending all the time
and it's just like constantly like all
the ragers just being paired with each
other
and get out of that if you decide that
you have to finish
all you have to do it's like [ __ ]
jail i kid you not it's like purgatory
you have to like like complete five low
priority q games
or something like that and and i've
never
i've never i mean i've always been
curious but i've never been in a little
private eq game before
and and so i'm i'm afraid to go because
i'm afraid i'm never going to be able to
get out
but i think it is kind of interesting
that like you know they have implemented
things and generally speaking like
people are pretty
positive in in the games that i play i
mean there's still people who are upset
and stuff and i think in dota
you know you're not locked in for 25
minutes it's 45 minutes baby
it's it's damn near an hour and
and so that's that's really painful and
you can't surrender in dota
there's no conceived button which which
also is kind of an interesting
design choice um
but uh yeah what do you guys think about
that
um i think it's like i think it's a good
idea i mean very rarely
do i get in a game where everyone's
positive like very rare i probably like
one game every
month and i play like 10 games a day
or more so it's very rare but when when
you get in those kind of games
even when you're losing your whole team
is so positive everyone just has fun
about it they're like oh we're losing
and
we just like start playing around and
you know have fun losing and
that's like the kind of you know kind of
games i want to play
daily you know to me have more enjoyment
playing league
yeah i would rather oh no you guys
uh those systems typically only work for
like lower rating
just because there's more people playing
so you actually find a match with
actual like the amount of positive
people i want to return higher
i'm pretty yeah the real players is
lower so yeah
i imagine like maybe if they implement
that take like
hours to find a game yeah that's
probably why they don't do it
yeah uh that's i was gonna say something
um relate to that too so i don't think
ryan would do something like that
because of that problem and also like i
mean like they tried with
with like the whole honor system right
but
the thing with the honor system that
ryan implemented like
what ends up happening is usually people
just honor like it's like you can honor
for like
like i think it's like shock calling
like
what are the other ones guys like i
don't even know like like positive and
yeah like a good game yeah like having
like it's like there's like a heart one
and then i don't know i
for me like i just at this point just
default like people that like
even like yeah i i don't think anyone
uses the honor system like the way it
was designed people just usually just be
like oh who like popped off the hardest
kind of
and they just honor them so if you have
like a high honor level it's usually
just like
oh you just probably like carry like a
decent percentage of your games
um so but it's kind of weird it's called
honor and like there's like rewards tied
to it like you get like little skin
capsules and stuff like that but
it doesn't really help in like the sense
that like
incur i don't think it really encourages
like those kind of behaviors or like
makes the community truly better um i
don't know maybe i'm wrong i don't like
the numbers like that but i never felt
like
it really uh did anything productive
at least from my perspective yeah
would you guys describe the league
community as
toxic yes
yes yeah majority of it probably
really so you guys this isn't like a
vocal minority kind of thing it sounds
so surprising
this is like public yeah everyone
thinks that way everyone will think of
biggest thoughts
why
probably just have more bad experiences
than good ones and playing a game
and like you play games for fun normally
if you eat it casually
you probably just ran into more bad
experiences than good
interesting you know so this is kind of
a random aside but
you know the problem with the behavior
score system so like you guys
this is going to be a random question i
have no idea if you guys have any
experience with this
you know if you have a kid who acts out
like do you guys know what the like
so if i let's say there are 10 kids in
10 classes that act out
do you guys know what happens when i
take all those 10 kids out of those
classes and stick them in a class
together
nope so the interesting thing is that
generally speaking if you want to
rehabilitate people
you don't separate you keep them
with like so if you take like a toxic
person so if you think about like uh
you know like if you think about
alcoholics for example maybe this is an
easier example
so if we have a bunch of alcoholics and
you actually like
put an alcoholic with a group of sober
people
that's actually how they get sober
does that make sense you don't do it by
like putting a bunch of alcoholics
together and i know people sort of they
say but
isn't out is an alcoholic synonymous
like a bunch of alcoholics together
well yes but they're also sober they're
sober alcoholics
right so the interesting thing the
downside i think to the behavior score
system is that it actually
concentrates all of the positivity in
one area which is great if you're a
positive person
but also makes it a hopeless
for everyone else and
and i what i'm kind of curious about is
like when you guys talk about like the
meta has become toxicity
and so what my question is to you guys
is like how do we change that
and i know you guys have said riot needs
to do something so fine but
you know that's them
we gotta make everyone positive how do
you do that
i mean i don't even like i don't even
think
i don't even want like the whole
community to be like like positive like
necessarily
just like i just wish people would be
like more mellow like chill like
not like you know so
just getting so hyphy and like vicious
on each other for like you know maybe
having a bad game or
you know playing poorly or whatever like
you know whatever
their percep perceived like offenses i
don't know i just like
it's just so easy to to tear people down
whether you're playing a game or like
watching a stream or like
you know posting a reddit comment or
like a youtube comment like whatever
like i know this is like it's the
internet like i don't know it's it's
kind of
i mean you're asking like what can we do
about it like it's just i
i just it's just hard when like you a
lot of places that you look it's like
there's so much negativity and
you know it can be draining over time
even if it's not even directed at you
right just seeing it like
so consistently um and honestly i have
no idea like like i said
you know just i feel like trying like on
our like we're just like we're just like
a few streamers right like people
i'm sure there's a lot of people
watching this or like you know might
hear like this convo that
might might you know be a part of people
that want want like a more chill
community like want
more positivity like less less you know
negative hyphy behavior
um but like you know what what can we
all do right like that's the thing
like it's it just feels like
it just feels like i'm not gonna say
like
like for example i've been sorry i'm
like saying like a lot and so um i'm not
i'm trying to figure out like where i'm
going with this but it's like i've been
streaming for like
10 years almost like lee and i feel like
i've always tried to
you know set a good example and like do
my best
not like not like being fake like i'll
get mad all like i'll
i'll be like this guy literally through
the game like i'll call people out but
like i've just tried my best to like
not be the the things that you know i
feel like really tear me down or tear
other people down that i see it
sometimes in the community and i just
feel like all
i just feel like at the end of the day
like what did i really accomplish like
it just feels like there's so much
overwhelming like
negativity around and it feels like
there's nothing i can really do on an
individual level or like you know we can
really do to like change that
um that's that's honestly like like
danny says like a hopeless war like i'm
not saying i like i've like given up or
anything like that but it really just
feels like
like i haven't like we have no clue like
what we could possibly do
to like change that it's like we're
waiting for reinforcements
but all we get is like little timmy
little waggy little sword in the back
but some key fragments yeah where's that
where's our help
what i'm hearing is that positive league
players are an endangered species
yes i get the sense i mean this hopeless
war analogy of like you guys are like
you know stalwart warriors falling one
at a time
and every time one of you falls you like
look behind you to see if reinforcements
coming and no one's gone
it sounds pretty bleak to be honest guys
sounds hard
um again like i i'm not sitting here
pretending to be a very very positive
person i'm not
and i i also don't think that it's
realistic to
think that there is a date that's going
to come where the majority
of the community is going to be positive
um however i think
like with the like it it's undeniable
that it has been a downward spiral
because a few seasons ago it was
never the way that it is today
so i i'm just so curious as to what
happened there must have been like this
it's like a a community but it's also
like a culture in a way
where it's become
normalized to be toxic
and uh like i'm not sure where that
comes from uh maybe it's
just from the fact that most people
don't play this as a job
and they just um queue up for a game of
league to
like escape or lash out or whatever the
case may be
but i just wonder like i'm really not
sure how it got to this
point
yeah you know i think that's a
fascinating question i sometimes wonder
so pretty much like there are big trends
that are happening so sometimes i wonder
if the trends that we see in gaming have
nothing to do with riot or the actual
games they have to do with the people in
them
so what has happened to people's lives
over the last three or four years
generally speaking one thing that we
know is that mental illness has
now surpassed heart disease in cancer
and is now number one in the united
states for
what we call morbidity and mortality
which means that like
the burden of disease is now
worse so we're number one so something
is going on with people's minds
in general like across the developed
world
probably also true in like third world
countries or developing countries as
well
but generally speaking like people's
minds are becoming
more toxic
and i wonder if if that has something to
do with it like i think there are big
macro trends
i do think that i'm not ready to give up
hope yet
and i know that you guys and that's
probably because i'm new and naive
and i'm timmy with poop little sword
because i just i just don't train a
little timmy though huh
we gotta train little timmy though
that's sure so maybe a little teammate
needs to learn how it is
but i have a couple of like crazy
thoughts i mean so i think the first is
that
i think we can understand as a community
like how
um where like tilt comes from and i
think we have to understand that like
tilt the reason that tilt happens and
the reason that there's so much toxicity
is because i think it feels good
right like like we said earlier i know
it sounds kind of bizarre but being
positive is going to wipe you out
in four hours raging at the internet
is like something that you can sustain
for hours on end
and i don't quite understand why that is
or how that is i think part of it feels
like very validating
or resonant for lack of a better term
like it feels right and so you know you
can do a lot of things that feel right
whereas like you know restraining
yourself like we were talking about
earlier if you feel hopeless if you
don't want to display your negativity
that comes at a cost whereas like
letting loose and i think it kind of
goes back to what kareem was saying
earlier about
you know you can rage when you lose or
you can learn
and karim why do you think why don't you
think people
pick learn
i think either because they don't want
to learn and play the game
casually or because
it is the harder like route to take
so what makes it harder and this kind of
comes back to what danny was saying
about perspective
right so danny was saying like if people
can get perspective they don't tell
so what makes perspective hard why don't
people have perspective
let's do something different i'm sorry
you gotta do something different like
learn that
yeah yeah like like i'll say again like
they respond to the same routine that
they don't want to change
or do anything different because it's
just easy easy to do the same thing
what makes it easy to do the same thing
because you know it
you know what to do you feel comfortable
doing it because
you're in your zone you don't want to
step out of that zone
yeah you're not really challenging
yourself and putting yourself in a
position to fail i guess when you're
doing
the same thing that you know you're
putting other people in position to fail
[ __ ] that if you're gonna fail they're
gonna fail too
right i'm diving i'm diving the top
tower your ass is coming with me
if i'm gonna have a bad game you're
gonna have a bad game
yeah so i think that's a big part of it
so like here are a couple of
i mean you guys have anything else like
i feel like sort of i have a couple of
conclusions to share with you guys i'm
just curious what you think
and i wanted to sort of give you guys
some chances to respond or
or tell me i'm an idiot
and tilt is that okay
yeah yeah because i think i've learned a
lot from what y'all have to say
and i'll start with this once again i've
said it two or three times already but
the first thing is that it it blows my
mind
how parallel what you guys are
describing is to
actual real life and it kind of starts
with this idea of expectation
right so like i'll give you guys just
like a real life example let's say i'm
smart
because that's what we are as gamers
right we're smart
and then we go to school and
we've been smart so like i i've i've
gotten straight a's
through the sixth grade and seventh
grade after flex on us
huh so you didn't have to flex
oh straight a's through the sixth grade
is flexing now
and so so i go to the seventh grade and
i find that i get a b
and then what does that mean about me
being smart
what do you guys think it threatens it a
little bit
absolutely so how do i get an a
what do i have to do now in seventh
grade you gotta study
and what is work harder what does
studying say about me being smart
you're not as smart as you thought you
were you're damn right
it's interesting right so what i need to
do
actually threatens who i am i'm stuck
i'm screwed
paralyzed because if i study i'm not
smart anymore
and if i don't study i'm going to get a
b and i'm not smart anymore
so what is the only way i can preserve
my intelligence
you guys know not studying
and why i'm still getting a's nope
it's actually a stop trying yeah you
don't even get tested or whatever you
don't even
absolutely oh yeah you you just don't
you just don't want to see the result
absolutely you're damn right i just say
oh yeah
i don't care about learning english
i read dostoyevsky in my free time i
don't need to read this middle school
[ __ ]
you denigrate it and then it's okay to
get a b
because you're smart so it starts with
an expectation i don't know how exactly
that translates into league
but i think there's something in there
about not learning and not getting
better
it's the easy road right kareem was like
it's hard to learn
danny's like it's hard to change who you
are
so these people preserve who they are
because it's easier
so i'm going to be bronze and call
everyone else a shitty
bronze is a rank in league is that right
yeah
okay so like i'm gonna say bronze and
i'm just gonna call everyone else
shitties
so i think there's something there the
second thing is like oh man gg go next
oh god if there's one problem in our
society right now it's gg go next
because this is what we do like people
who are stuck at home
they wake up one day and they're like
yeah today i'm gonna learn how to code
and they load up league and then
what happens after one hour is they tell
themselves gg go next
and you know what next is it's tomorrow
and then they wake up tomorrow and
they're like today i'm gonna learn how
to code
and they play one game and they say gg
go next
right it's it's like the first five
minutes when you lose the scuttle you
give up on the game and you're like gg
go next
i want it to be perfect otherwise it's
not the game that i
envisioned oh [ __ ] like coding turns out
that it's like it's way
muddier and it's not the expectation
that i had like
i knew what i wanted to do this game i
was gonna be a tarzan or whatever
and i was gonna own everyone 1v9 and
someone ruined it for me so [ __ ] that
expectation
and we have expectations for our rise
from the shittiness of our life
right we're going to be transformed and
like some people like i'm going to be
the next boy boy
i'm going to be the next positive
streamer i'm going to be the next kareem
i'm gonna be the next xyz and i'm gonna
become a big league streamer
and then when things don't go their way
when they start streaming for like two
or three days and they they have like 30
viewers
they're like ah screw that
like it's easier to say gg go next and
give up than it is to actually like try
to learn
and that kind of gets to this issue of
like you know what are our choices
either we rage or we learn and there is
something really really awesome
about raging and giving up because it
feels good it just feels really good
it feels really good to say gg go next
and i thought it was really interesting
so if you guys listened
to kareem's words he said it feels good
but you know it's not the right thing
and i think there are a lot of people on
twitch
who do things because they feel good and
they know it's not the right thing
like you know you should stop playing
league after one game and like maybe
learn how to code
but there's that voice in all of us
that's like it's not the right
what i'm doing is not the right thing
but i want to do it anyway
because it feels good so then the
question is why do you get that
is this okay am i just ranting am i
losing you guys no no you're great
that's good awesome okay
so then we get to like okay so then why
is that
and i think it's beautiful because you
guys gave it to us like in the first
five seconds of stream
ego right if we think about like like
where does ego go into this
i think a lot of toxicity comes from ego
a lot of toxicity comes from this idea
that like like i'm intelligent like i
have this
identity is i'm very smart
look at how five head i am and the more
that we attach ourselves to that
identity of i
am this way like the more we get to this
bass awkward sort of situation where
like i get a b
in class and i'm relegating myself to bs
or c's
or d's or dropping out for the rest of
my life
because that's what gg go next looks
like for the people who are 23 and
living at home and watching twitch
all day i love you guys but your problem
started when you started saying gg go
next
so the really crazy thing that i had
never envisioned before
is that an antidote to this problem of
all places
is league of legends this is the really
crazy thought
and i've never really thought about this
until this moment but the way you guys
are describing league of legends makes
me think that
if you can take a toxic player and
transform them in league of legends
the same formula is what's necessary to
transform your real life
because it's the same [ __ ] it's ego
it's expectation it's perspective what
does perspective mean
perspective is something that i would
call attachment
you are one in the game your identity is
lost in the game
it's not just a game it's everything
for that person in that moment league is
everything
and you [ __ ] [ __ ] you took my
scuttle you're taking everything away
from me
and so how do you cultivate that
perspective
right because some of you guys are able
to do it but it's like really hard
and even in your case boy boy i think
you could bet everyone can benefit from
perspective
when you have a hundred percent
perspective you guys know what we call
that
or what people what another term for
that is
and it's kind of a weird open-ended
question when you have like a hundred
percent perspective all the time
that's what buddha called enlightenment
distance from the thing that you are
doing
the ability to recognize that all of
your emotions
that get wrapped up in that is not a
real thing but it feels so real in that
moment
it's being able to take distance from it
and saying like that's just
the game and what would they realize is
that life is actually just one big game
and you don't have to get bent out of
shape that life
can do crappy things to you but this is
a big revelation that he had
most of what sucks about life is what we
do to ourselves when life does something
to us
because the damage doesn't come when we
get a b the damage comes
the way that we respond to the b when i
lose scuttle i haven't lost a league of
legends game
what causes me to lose the league of
when i run down mid and this is the
shocking thing that i don't think people
get
is that most of what's ruining their
lives
is not the scuttle it's the [ __ ]
running down mid
and this is where things like you guys i
know y'all are hopeless
but this is what gives me hope i know it
sounds crazy
you may not have control over the
scuttle but you actually have control
over running down mid
and so you can actually win that game in
fact
it's probably pretty chances are like
maybe 51.49
or like 49.51 like not in your favor
after losing to scuttle
but the way that we respond to what life
gives us is ultimately what determines
whether we win or we lose
and that's like really really bizarre
but i refer back to the studying example
because getting a b it's like weird but
we get on this trajectory
of like throwing and we just throw it
life
and then we feel hopeless
but here's the crazy thing like so let
me ask you guys when someone loses
scuttle and
starts running down mid on a scale of 1
to 10
10 being completely hopeless and one
being having all the hope in the world
where are they where are they
where are they oh in the game
no like like on a scale of hopelessness
in the context of the game or yeah in
the context of the game oh
i mean obvi like hope like hopeless i
guess absolutely right
yeah so but the funny thing there is
it's the hopelessness which causes them
to run down mid
it's the hopelessness which causes us to
not act
but the crazy thing is that the
hopelessness
is like kind of false like we know that
in the context of league of legends
right
like you're not actually like what the
[ __ ] man you just lost 100 gold
item like we can still dumpster these
shitties
just play the [ __ ] game
[Music]
but that's not what we do because once
we feel hopeless
then we don't see like in that moment
we're not able to see
and what is it that lets us see danny
lee baby
perspective
perspective hey take a step back man and
this is the other thing that wood that
taught
expectation leads to attachment
attachment leads to suffering i'm like i
[ __ ] you guys not if you guys go back
and you read the poly or the sunscreen
it's it's exactly what you guys said
about league of legends when i go into
the game
i'm gonna get i'm gonna get to the top
scuttle first or left scuttle or right
skunk or whatever one of the scuttles
i'm going to beat the other jungle
player to it and then i'm going to go
and i'm going to get the bottom skull 2
and then i'm going to be 200 g up and
buy this item i'm a gank mid
we're going to roll these [ __ ]
expectation
attachment now i'm going to leave you
guys with one other question
who is more likely to to tilt the person
who goes
2 and 0 in a game or the person who goes
on 2 in the game
i think it depends on player themselves
okay
because like i mean there's games where
i'll be like
i'll be like 10-0 like hard smurfing and
then like
i'll make one mistake and like we'll
lose like an objective or something
and i'll feel really bad i'll be i'll
actually
be like pretty tilted but i mean i can
still bounce back and there'll be games
where i'm just getting camped
and i'll be like oh and five but i know
we can win and i know that like
you know the jungler's permatop we're
getting stuff on the other side of the
map
like you know it's like a balance like
and there's some games like
i'm just i'm just like completely
neutral and i'll be tilted
like pretty hard and i know it's like a
pretty big spectrum for everybody
i agree so yeah go ahead i think it's a
lot more likely for the o2 to turn into
an o10 than for the 2o
to turn into 8.
not in that the 2o might not be
tilted they might be tilted but still
continue to try
but once you're 2-0 there's or once
you're o2 there's that level of
hopelessness that settles in and the
more you die
the worse it gets okay if that makes
sense yep
so like if you go 0 and 2 so i i think
that there's a subtle thing there did
some i'm sorry did somebody else want to
say something
oh okay right so so i i
think that there's a there's a really
interesting thing there right so i i
hear what you guys are saying i think it
is like kind of a simple
i mean it's a complex it's a complicated
issue that i'm trying to turn into a
simple question to illustrate a point
so i i definitely know people who go 0
and 2 who feel
super [ __ ] tilted
because what was supposed to happen
i was supposed to go 2-0 they're
right and so here's the crazy thing so
most of chat seems to think that two and
o is more likely to tilt
and why is that i think it's because
once you're two and o
what do you expect to happen for the
rest of the game
you expect everything to go in your
favor absolutely
so when you're 0-2 absolutely when
you're 0-2
and you get a kill how do you feel
when you're two and 0 and you die how do
you feel
like you just threw absolutely right so
it's about expectation
expectation is key what do you expect
every day when you wake up
and the more that you expect the the
closer you are
to the thing i don't know how else to
put that i don't know if that makes
sense and then you lose perspective
and the more that you can separate
yourself out the less
more expectation will melt away you can
see like there's no
expectation is about being invested does
that make sense
like i can expect certain things to
happen but they're not going to bother
me unless i'm invested
i can go into a game and i can be like
okay i should win because this is a
favorable match up
but like maybe i won't
and then you do well and so the crazy
thing here is that when
when it comes down to it i think that
like
okay how to wrap up so like let me just
try to piece this together so i see
i see a lot of this stuff around
expectation and perspective
of gaining perspective and i also see
like some themes where i get that you
guys are hopeless but i don't i'm not
hopeless
and that's probably just because i
haven't played enough league of legends
and and the reason that i'm not hopeless
is i think that you guys are hopeless
for the same reason
i think there's some common element
although your situation does sound
genuinely are we dropping what's going
on
i think voyn then you just deceived
gg he had to go next yeah gg go next
next stream gigi disco there's lots of
talk of gg go next
we lost voice uh anyway i forgot what i
was saying did you guys
y'all remember sometimes i just started
going and i don't remember exactly where
i was
i do that nope we cut out so i don't
know i was i was listening intently but
then
you're here i was listening but
okay anyway i don't know what to say but
okay let me try to get it back
so i was talking to you guys about like
expectation right so
that the reason the 20 person tilts is
because they have an expectation that
they're going to continue to dumpster
and it's that expectation that actually
screws them
because the second that you you tell
yourself like oh i'm i got this [ __ ]
i got this [ __ ] on lock that's the
moment that you open yourself up to tilt
and if it's sort of like hey i've got an
advantage let's see if we can turn this
into a 3-0
but maybe they'll compensate and by the
way like i'm worth way more because now
i want to kill streak
right so there's like there's like a
rubber band mechanic built into the game
this is definitely not unlocked let's
see if i can dumpster these shitties
so there's a big difference between i'm
going to and let's see if
anyway this kind of gets back to the
sort of the last issue of like what do
we do about toxicity in league and i i
hear that
you know hopefully riot does more
they're working on it sounds like pretty
cool and hopeful
at the same time i would be careful
about underestimating your own impact
so one of the things that you kind of
learn as a therapist is that
oftentimes you don't realize like how
helpful you are
like if i if i'm working with someone
who's got bad depression they come into
my office every week and they're like
depressed every week what am i gonna
feel like
am i going to feel like i'm doing a good
job
maybe not
so sometimes the most important thing
that you can offer
someone is like your constancy
in the face of hopelessness
so i cannot underplay
how important it is that you guys do
what you do
because there's like there's a lot of
victory and overcoming hopelessness
there's something like wonderfully noble
about standing against it anyway
right so you guys are on the front lines
everyone except for cream
so cream
a little bit behind us right so like
just the fact that you guys show up day
after day dealing with the [ __ ] that you
deal with i don't think you guys realize
like
how important that is and don't
underestimate your inability to see it
for the lack of effect
because if we listen to kareem you know
he's kind of saying three years ago
things weren't like this
so oftentimes we as human beings don't
realize how profound of an impact we
have on other human beings
we don't see it but it doesn't mean that
it isn't important
and i've seen time and time and time
again that all it takes is like one
person
to like transform something
like a community and in your case like i
don't know exactly what's going to come
from this i find it hard to believe that
anyone who's watching this stream
is going to be more likely to tilt a
rage at the end of the stream
i have to say that something about what
you guys have shared
and the perspective that we've gained is
going to positively impact
things in in some way
i just you know i don't i don't think
what you guys say is rage inducing
i don't think it tilts people more i
think it's actually like positive and
inspiring
i something tells me like people who are
watching have to
go into their league games at some point
and like maybe
rage a little bit less what do you guys
think about that
yeah it makes sense um
like i had you know sometimes i get you
know hate mail
or hate messages people will just hate
on me for some no reason like
i haven't done anything to them i'm very
positive and stuff so i have
i don't see why they hate me that's why
they just
oh okay we'll talk about that in a
second but
keep going i didn't mean to derail you
oh yeah
um usually you know i just
ignore those kind of messages but um i
did respond to one
i i said i don't know why you hate me
but i hope the best for you
and it was crazy because he responded
back you know it's like why are you
requesting the best for me
like i'm making like i'm i hate you and
all stuff but
wow man thank you and he started being
more positive so i was like oh
okay well that's cool i think he got
lucky there bro
i i know i got the person i responded to
no but i i think so so does anybody have
any idea why so many people hate chris
yes let me know guys why do you hate me
no there's no way
why do you guys think people hate him or
i shouldn't say so many people i should
say the ones that hate him a lot
and take the time out of their day to dm
him
what do you guys think that is
and i think like maybe trying to spread
like a positive message or at least a
different message in their eyes that
like how you're thinking
it's like different from theirs in a
sense you tell them they're wrong or
in a way i think yep it's terrifying
so like let me ask you guys a question
we're gonna go back to the sixth grader
who's now in seventh grade and got to be
on a test
and who's debating between do i stop
studying
or do i study and then therefore i lose
my smartness
and then like the person that that
who does that person hate the most
it's the person who they perceive as
smart who they one day find out has been
studying
right so i think i think chris the
reason that people send you hateful
messages
is because if they had chosen
differently
they could have been who you are
they see themselves in you the thing
that inspires
in my opinion the most vitriolic hate
is when you see the person that you are
making the choice that you didn't make
because that's hard
the most engaging to the ego
because i can't tolerate that because if
sanchez does it that means that my
entire life
has been a lie
maybe it's because the champions you
spam
yeah like cinch
[ __ ] people watch
uh chris's stream and then as a result
they're picking cinched in by games
and they're losing
yeah so [ __ ] you sorry man
i'm trying to teach them the right way
so any any kind of we've been running at
it for close to
like an hour and a half or so a little
over you guys have any like thoughts or
questions
um
well i guess what what you said about
how we do have an impact even if we
can't always see it um
yeah it definitely i i definitely like
appreciate and understand that like
when like i'll get messy i'll get like
hate messages but also get like
you know positive messages from people
would be like hey boy like just like
watching your stream like just seeing
like
you know how you how you are in game and
like how you don't give up and just
keep trying and and try to like rally
your team up and stuff like it
it helped me out like not only in game
but also like
in like other aspects of life which i i
personally
um i don't i don't really understand
because like for me it's like pretty
easy to like
think about win conditions in league and
like know like how we can come back in a
game even if it's losing and stuff like
that
but like you know translating that like
you're like you were talking about how
like we can like
have an example for like real life like
translating into my own life it's like a
lot harder right like
i think in league like i can all it's
really easy for me like be positive
because i understand the game and i
understand like how we can win like
what are the options like if it's
hopeless then i'll be like all right
well maybe we lost this but like in life
it's just
it's just so so much of a mystery right
and there's just so many unknowns and
like so much
that it's not like a game like in league
where like
the rules are voiced what's the
difference between real life and league
when it comes to you
um
i i i don't know that's that's really
hard actually
sorry yeah so it's kind of a weird ass
question does it does anyone even
understand the question
i get it but i i think it's such a
like a like a special case
i i think uh like voy has put in
his life into the game so league in a
way has become
his life you're damn right yeah
so he says life is so much harder and
that's because boy has dedicated a
decade of his life to
understanding league and voy how much of
your life have you dedicated
to understanding life
i probably stopped about a decade ago if
i
my calculations are correct
only reason to me that it is harder than
league for you
is because you have taken and i know
this is going to sound weird in
vogue memes but you have taken your
massive
intellect and dedication and you put it
into one thing for a decade
and then you're saying oh [ __ ] this is
so much easier
than this other thing well no [ __ ]
wonder man that's because you've been
investing in it for a decade
yeah when you play like that
let me explain something to you guys
life is not actually harder
than games the big difference is we just
don't
[ __ ] practice one
like we don't think about it we don't
try to improve
we don't do replay analysis we don't
watch streamers
think about someone that you know that's
good at life
good at league how do you learn from the
league player
you watch their [ __ ] stream how do
you learn from the person at life
you don't
if they try to have a conversation with
you you run for the hills
oh [ __ ] he's good at life i'm a reject
who plays lol all day
i can't interact with him
like this is the thing that blows my
mind like i've literally taken
like these like cases so this is like
something so i was in a class at harvard
business school okay
and i had this case for a bunch of
[ __ ] there were 100 physicians in a
class at harvard business school
and they gave me this case study which
is like a complex problem
it's like a 16-page thing about
optimizing revenue in a urology clinic
i took i took this case to a group of my
gamer buddies
and i was like what do you guys think
about this
they work on it for a day tell me what
they think i go into class the next day
and they're like what do people think
about the case i raise my hand and i say
what my gamer buddies told me
professor is impressed
just turn your focus it's about your
attention and your focus
think about the way that you play the
game of week think about all of the
struggles that you go through all the
energy you expend
in streaming and you don't expend a
fraction of that in the rest of your
life
so like no wonder you suck at it but it
doesn't mean
that you suck you suck at it
you're not bad you just haven't invested
in it bro
like that's what i'm telling you guys
like i invested a couple years of my
life into learning how i work as a human
being
and absolutely worth the investment
where does desire come from what is the
nature of attachment and suffering
who is more likely to tilt two and o or
o and two
how do you work as a human being
learn these things i think you guys
actually understand a lot of stuff you
all have a leg up because you all seem
to be good league players
that means you guys are like smart and
dedicated and if you just shift the
focus
you'll be amazed at what you can learn
you guys just don't know the vocabulary
it's like like
boy boy today's been to feels like [ __ ]
feels like [ __ ] feels like [ __ ]
right and that's just because it's like
what's like if i came to you guys and i
said
you're like hey dr k how's the league
game going and i i'm like i lose
like why do you lose i suck then i play
again and they're like why'd you lose
that game i suck
i suck you guys
realize like you don't lose a game of
game of league of legends because you
suck right like you lose a game because
of all kinds of complicated reasons
which no one understands because i just
don't i haven't spent the time with it
oh i don't know how to last hit i'm
rotating poorly i bought the wrong items
i had a singed on my team
top captain was good don't hate on the
cinch
right you see how easy it is to adopt
the toxicity i don't even know who is
that canadian on stage
toxicity comes so naturally
but boy boy dude and for the rest of
y'all too and everyone watching at home
just put fraction of what you put into
league into the rest of your life you
will be amazed
because this is the thing that people
don't understand everyone thinks gamers
suck like i think gamers are the biggest
untapped potential in the world today
no one gives them any kind of respect or
any kind of responsibility
this entire organization was built on
rejects healthy gamer built on rejects
built from people from our community who
he said you know what
actually i don't care that you haven't
graduated from college
we'll give you a shot don't let us down
and it's been amazing
absolutely amazing
and so just take this dedication and
look at other parts of your life man
and you'll be amazed you guys are
badasses y'all are giants in the making
you guys are already giants fighting
against the hopeless hordes
of toxic zombies who are hinting right
and left at high elo which i hear is
really bad actually in league
you'd expect you know high elo to be
like less toxic but i hear it's bad
and y'all are awesome
and you guys are inspiring other people
whether you realize it or not
and if y'all weren't there like imagine
what would happen
the hordes would take over right there's
someone somewhere out there who watches
your games goes into a league of legends
game and then decides to try to emulate
you
and i think as long as you guys keep at
it you may not see the change but i
think it'll happen
generally speaking that's been my
experience if you study like you may not
get a b right you may not get an a right
away you may get a b for a little while
but you keep keep working at it and
you'll learn how to study you'll get
better and you'll start getting a's
yep okay oh yeah
danny i'm sorry you wanted to say
something and then we'll get to kareem's
question oh i was just saying like yeah
once
you know people stop trying i mean we're
[ __ ] as long as people try
to effort maybe other people put an
effort to
yep
so if you try maybe you're [ __ ] and if
you don't try you're certainly [ __ ]
kareem you had a question yeah i just
had a question
relating to um
bettering yourself as a person and then
translating that into league where we
talk about the analogy of the
the a student going into b what does
practice or studying in that case
look like for somebody who is trying to
better themselves mentally
someone who used to be good mentally and
then finds themselves not good mentally
or somebody that's just not good
mentally and that's never been good
trying to
get good so how do you
get good when it comes to your mental
right it's a fantastic question
so the answer to that question is
what healthy gamer is all about and i
can't answer it simply but i'm going to
try anyway
right so i think honestly kareem
the foundation is awareness and noticing
so the first thing to recognize is that
so
too many times do people especially
within our community
equate their value as a person with a
particular thing
outside of themselves first thing to
understand
just because you're bad at life does not
mean you're bad
but most people don't think like that
like if i can't find a date to prom what
does that say about
me as a human
nothing incorrect
that's technically true and actually
true but what do i think about myself
boy
that no one likes you
not just that no one likes me that i'm
not worth liking
do you guys see the difference between
those two statements because there's an
entire chasm
no one likes me i'm not worth liking
so the first thing preem is to
disidentify yourself
with your problem i'm not a bad league
player
i'm just a nude there's a huge
difference between sucking at league
and being a noob which i know we equate
the two right like even in our society
in our community
we equate the two but lack of experience
is different from like talent or value
so the first thing is that you may not
you're not bad at life you just haven't
learned how to live it
because how have you tried so that's i
know that sounds weird but that's
actually the foundation that's the first
thing
second thing is okay so fine i accept i
haven't learned how to live it
how do i learn how to live it and so
i'll teach you guys how to meditate in a
minute
but i'd say oftentimes the the biggest
and most important foundation is
awareness
so you have to understand what is going
on inside you
and the cool thing is like you can do
that any number of ways you just have to
pay attention so it could be something
as simple as
the next time you play so cream you say
you're not like these positive
dick wads here but like some days you're
super toxic in league and some days
you're less
less toxic and league right
yeah sure so what's the difference
the it just kind of depends their
outside um
i guess variables and also depending on
how
previous games have gone it's very easy
to sort of get caught up on
something that's happened in the past um
having one event in a certain game
dictate the way that your mood is
for the rest of your games that day okay
so like that's
that's a that's a decent answer but it's
not nearly specific
right so you say so you have vague
strokes of like [ __ ] that happened in
the previous game affects me in this
game
so then the question becomes if you want
to get good at life you have to figure
out
what is it in the game that affects you
what is it that carries over the next
game what is it that stays behind
what has to happen for me to get from
point a to point b
what are all of those variables and
getting good at life
is about understanding those a simple
example
if i don't sleep well what happens to me
right so getting good at life is an
understanding like how you function as a
person
and that starts with paying attention so
and here's a kind of a pitch that i give
to people when i'm trying to convince
them to
hire me for consulting so i'll go to
like a corporation or like a startup or
something and i'll say
what's the difference between a good day
and a bad day
what do you guys think so i'll go to
like a hospital
i'll have a group of surgeons like 40
surgeons in a room and i'll ask them
what's the difference between a good day
and a bad day you [ __ ] up in surgery
today
why what do you guys think
i'm actually not sure i don't know do
people have good days
yeah do people have bad days yeah yeah
what's the difference like let's just
think about this from the surgeon's
perspective
so you went through your training on
monday your training was let's say
15 years and one day
and you make a mistake and then on
tuesday
your training is 15 years and two days
and you do a good job
has your biology changed has your brain
changed have you lost dexterity
do you know less surgery did you forget
some surgery no
ridiculous how can human beings like
just think about this for a second
if our cars worked like we do as human
beings no one would ever [ __ ] drive a
car
that's true crazy
and so what is this pile that we call
humanity
like how do we work no one understands
this [ __ ] what's the difference between
a good day and a bad day and everyone's
like i don't know but i have good days
and i have bad days so why don't you
start [ __ ] paying attention that's
number one
the next time you have a bad day try to
like ask yourself because this is the
cool thing is you guys can actually come
up with answers
if you bother to try
think about how you guys learn learn
league of legends you took this thing up
here which is actually pretty badass
and you pointed it at something and then
as long as you point it at something
you're going to figure [ __ ] out does
that make sense yeah
you're going to get better you just have
to point it in the right direction how
long have you spent pointing it at
yourself
not much so point it at yourself that's
what awareness is
why am i having a bad day today what's
the best that i can figure out
then you experiment what happens if i
sleep
what hap how much did i sleep yesterday
is there a correlation be scientific
study yourself and the third thing you
can do is like
read right so reading is good but like
you should use it to inform what you
understand because the cool thing about
this is you guys actually know all this
stuff
right boy boy knows how it feels he
knows it's draining the reason it feels
shitty is because it's draining
why is it draining because is karim put
together i have two choices i can rage
or i can learn
one is easy and feels good one is hard
one requires more mana
so i want you guys to think about league
of legends is like expending mana
every time you rage you fill up your
mana bar and every time you control that
rage
you drain your mana bar at some point
your mana bar runs out and then what do
you start doing
raging absolutely
you guys know this stuff right so you
know what they call
mana bar and regular people speak
willpower
right so every day when voyboy logs on
he's got a mana bar
with a hundred points of willpower every
time someone
puts a bounty on his ass he loses it
it's not feeling like sure those
feelings and stuff
but this is a principle of science boy
boy is a human being
you can only put up with so many
bounties before you crack it has nothing
to do with your
strength as a person your resilience
your worth but that's what it
feels like
but as a human being you have limits you
just don't know what they are and
danny's got some of this [ __ ] too
right because he's talking about
perspective so buddha says
expectation is where suffering comes
from
then there's this third principle of
it's what we do to ourselves because of
what life does to us that really screws
us
this is the principle of two arrows life
shoots us
shoots one arrow at us hits us the
second arrow is the one that we shoot at
ourselves because we got hit by the
first one
it's [ __ ] dumb but we do it all the
time
right so like start to understand these
basic principles about yourself
and look at yourself and you'll be
amazed at what you can accomplish
does that answer your question sort of
ranted at you for a minute
because it's a really complex question
but i wanted to try to give you a good
answer
other questions
i wanted to ask about meditation and
how obviously it helps and we all know
that it helps
but not to get too specific because i
know it'll take a while but how it helps
and
how to use it um
like efficiently sure that actually is
not
too hard of a question so when you say
how it helps what
what kind of help are we talking about
we're talking about like tilt prevention
right and keeping that mana at a hundred
okay so keeping the man at 100 and tilt
prevention are two different things
okay so i know i know that sound
so let me explain so let's talk about
both of them the first thing is
one form of meditation i'm going to
teach you guys
two techniques today um
so yeah i'll teach you two one is going
to help you with tilt
actually both of them will help you with
tilt and both of them help you with mana
but their mechanisms are different
so in terms of tilt prevention how do
you feel
like what are the emotions that you
experience when you're
tilting
sad frustrated embarrassed
sadjay okay right
so what do you guys think is happening
to your heart rate when you're tilted
it goes up yep sometimes you have
diaphoresis or sweating
right your body is activated you're
pissed you're angry you're in fighting
mode
so that i don't know how else to say
this but that is actually governed by
physiology
does that make sense like there are
there are hormones that are flowing
through your body that actually increase
your heart rate
and make you feel angry
so there are some chemicals that can
make you feel angry and other chemicals
that will make you feel sad
or calm or whatever so the first thing
is i'm going to teach you guys a
technique called alternate nostril
breathing
that literally balances the two modes of
your central nervous system
so your central nervous system so we
have two kinds of nervous system a
peripheral nervous system which is all
the nerves in our hands and fingers and
everything outside of the brain in the
spinal cord
and then we have this thing called the
central nervous system which is our
brain and our spinal cord
our central nervous system has two modes
of operation
it has a yin and a yang or
a surya and a chandra which means a sun
and a moon
or what's scientifically called a
sympathetic or a parasympathetic nervous
system
and what that means that our body has
two modes it has a fight or flight mode
right so you guys can think about this
as like stances
so we have a fight-or-flight stance and
we have a rest and digestants
one stance is for activity one stance is
for like
recuperation so what happens after you
haven't eaten for eight hours and you
eat a gigantic ass burrito
what happens to your body and your mind
uh food coma absolutely right so how the
[ __ ] does that work
so what is a food coma a coma implies a
mental function
you guys get that yeah so what happens
chris in your mind after you eat a
burrito and you're in a food coma what
does that mean what does it feel like to
be in a food coma
uh yet sleepy yup so why does that
happen
because the parasympathetic nervous
system is engaged
so when we eat a big meal our body says
yo bro we have a lot of this food in our
stomach
we're going to literally divert blood
from our brain our arms and our legs
and increase the size of our our
diameter not size
of arteries to our stomach and our
intestines to digest this food
and as a result you literally get sleepy
it's because there's literally less
blood flow going to your brain
so on the flip side tilt is the opposite
of the food coma
you feel angry agitated your thoughts
move fast
also your peripheral vision collapses
from like
120 degrees to 30 degrees when your
sympathetic nervous system is active
this is what adrenaline does
literally you cannot see outside the
sides of your vision when you have
adrenaline
also does it cognitively so we see that
cognitively when you're tilted
you can't consider things out here
you're just zeroing in on the scuttle
and this goes back to what danny was
saying perspective you lose perspective
literally adrenaline causes a collapse
of your peripheral vision
and a collapse of your cognitive vision
to only see
one thing it's a [ __ ] scuttle
so there's actually a practice which i
can teach you
which will balance those two nervous
systems it'll turn one off and turn the
other one on
and literally glad you're yawning boy
boy
the other thing that it can do is it can
balance the other way too so what it
really does is it balances them
so we're going to see and boy you should
yawn if you guys feel like yawning you
guys should just go ahead and i was just
gonna say it
i was gonna say i just didn't i just
didn't sleep much so it's not like i'm
i wasn't like bored or anything i'm not
offended don't worry about it okay i
think if you if you need to yawn you
should listen to the signals of your
body
okay and you may yawn more so that's
okay so we're gonna see
so i think it's actually useful because
like if you're tired right now let's see
how you feel
after the meditation practice and you're
allowed to say more tired if that's what
really happens that's okay
so the first thing is to balance your
sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous
system there's another one that actually
increases your mana bar but let's start
with one
did that sound okay cream yep 100 okay
so sit up straight
okay so what i want you guys to do so
your back should be straight
so the simplest way to tell if your back
is straight is if your knees are lower
than your hips
your knees lower than your hips yeah
if they're not you can sit on a pillow
it'll elevate your hips
and it'll move your knees down right if
you sit on a pillow
but anyway okay so i want you guys to do
this it's kind of complicated right hand
thumb out
two fingers if you go like this that's
totally cool don't worry about it
yep awesome okay
so then what we're gonna do thumb on
your right nostril plugging it
block it and then breathe in through
your left
switch so block the other nostril with
the other two fingers
yep and breathe out
in
switch there you go
and out
in
switch and out
in and don't switch in
switch and out now close your eyes
eyes closed in
switch out
and
and now continue at your own pace we'll
practice for about 60 seconds
remember to breathe in switch on a full
breath
and then out
then in through the same nostril before
you switch again
go ahead and finish the breath that
you're on
let your eyes remain closed
and let your hands relax
and now feel the person that you are
take a note of how you feel
notice that you spend a lot of your day
thinking certain things
feeling certain things
and that those things may just be
quieter
you're still you but you're a different
kind at you
you may also notice that
fatigue could be returning you may be
feeling it more fully
it's okay too just notice whatever you
feel
when you're ready open your eyes
how do y'all feel
that was that was really cool
i feel a lot i felt like during and
after like
a lot more relaxed um
i definitely like pretty tired today but
like anxious as well and then i guess
just
yeah doing the breathing it was like it
was nice just like focus on that
and just kind of not really worry about
anything else for like a moment
so it was there's a good feeling for
sure
so i'm gonna comment on what voy boy
said for a second to teach a principle
and then i'll ask the rest of you guys
i want you to imagine how run ragged
your mind is
when you never give it a break so much
to worry about
so much to think about so much to do
your mind deserves a break from time to
time and it can feel amazing
you guys know how long we meditated
two three minutes two minutes that's it
bro
do this [ __ ] for half an hour a day you
will be a different person in eight
weeks
two minutes you guys know why i don't
teach
30 minutes of meditation on stream
why ain't nobody got time for that
right
right but what i want you guys to see is
the difference in such a small time
i gave you guys a taste before we get
you really hooked
other experiences
um go ahead for me it's just like a lot
to process just the entire
little session we had so you would take
like a step back and like
get a almost get it like pull the whole
thing out
out of a hat like to focus on like
only focus on that instead of spreading
your focus to all the things
was what i got out of it
so this is really important you guys
know
why people get stuck it's because their
focus is spread
laser focus is what creates progress
you guys think about like y'all are
generally speaking good law players
right
what's the difference between you and a
bad law player
when it comes to getting good at life i
would argue that the biggest difference
between
people who are good at life and bad at
life is spread attention versus focused
attention
if we think about discipline what is
discipline
it's the restraint of your attention
where you tell it to go
that's it so if you practice
spreading your attention and focusing it
you'll like literally get better at life
which is what the data suggests
other experiences
um my mind feels lighter i guess like
i was there's a lot of you know things
to process like you're mentioning
because there's a big topic so
you know thinking of all the stuff that
you've mentioned in the past and then
after the meditation i feel lighter and
i can like take in more
after the meditation
maybe we should have started with it
i've been a good idea yeah but that's
cool right so like i think
you guys use this word like i i always
ask people how they feel after
meditation they say relax and it pisses
me off a little bit
what you are is so much more than
relaxed bro
it's not like you just got a massage you
know like we talk about lighterness of
the mind like what is that
it's actually like something very
specific like if we hear
chris and he's kind of saying that my
mind is now more receptive i can absorb
more information
like how opi is that just imagine if you
were studying
and you were like oh [ __ ] i can absorb
more information now after
90 seconds of this ancient himalayan
technique and people would be like oh
[ __ ] that's so op
hacks
but yeah so kareem you were asking a
question how do i get better at life
you start with things like this you
start by buffing yourself
and doing things that are opie that
other noobs don't have access to
and then you crush them because you're a
[ __ ] cheater at the game of life
any last thoughts or questions for you
wrap up sorry that's
over the top
i'm gonna try i'm gonna try the the 30
minutes
and see how i feel 100 yeah yep
so can i give you guys a suggestion yep
start with two to five so remember that
the brightest candle burns out the
fastest
so you all are pumped awesome start with
five
do it a couple times a week don't sign
up for one day
you're gonna do it every day unless
you're a pretty disciplined person and
you can anchor it at some time of your
day
then fine but let yourself
don't let your enthusiasm try to
string out your enthusiasm throughout
the week it'll
work better but by all means go for it
when you guys are ready for lesson
number two you let me know
okay sounds good awesome thank you guys
very much
thank you so much for having us
i never thought i'd learn so much about
life from listening to you guys talk
about league
seriously guys good luck and thank you
for everything that you do including
ukraine
thank you very much you're the sith lord
amongst the jedi
i think that's what's actually even more
powerful because you're here too
and if people see you make a change if
boy boy like turns out to be his
inspirational [ __ ] and no one's going
to bat an eye
because that's what we expect from him
but we transform kareem and then then
the world is like oh [ __ ]
thank you guys very much take care thank
you good one
yeah how do you feel about yourself also
how dare you
you filthy singed picker